README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">🌱 Eco-Friendly Product Recommender</h1>
<p align="center"><em>Sustainable shopping, powered by data — find products that align with your values</em></p>

---

### 🚀 Overview

**Eco-Friendly Product Recommender** is a Streamlit-based machine learning app that helps users discover sustainable products based on their personal values — like plastic-free, cruelty-free, organic, and more. It uses both **content-based filtering** (via TF-IDF + SVD) and **collaborative filtering** powered by the Surprise library.

---

### ✨ Features

- Search and explore eco-conscious products  
- Filter by sustainability values (e.g., zero-waste, vegan, organic)  
- Personalized recommendations using **TF-IDF** and **SVD**  
- Optional collaborative filtering using **Surprise**  
- Product metadata: name, brand, price, description, sustainability tags  
- Streamlit UI with interactive controls and visual breakdowns  

---

### 🛠️ Tech Stack

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue?logo=python)
![pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-Data%20Handling-purple?logo=pandas)
![scikit-learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-ML-orange?logo=scikit-learn)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-UI-red?logo=streamlit)
![Plotly](https://img.shields.io/badge/Plotly-Graphs-black?logo=plotly)
![Surprise](https://img.shields.io/badge/Surprise-Collaborative%20Filtering-blue?logo=python)

---

### ⚙️ Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/eco-friendly-recommender.git
   cd eco-friendly-recommender
    ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
2. **Run the app:**
   ```bash
   streamlit run app.py
   ```

Commit message:

Recommendation System, Data Cleaning, Project Structure

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">🌱 EcoRec</h1>
<p align="center"><em>Discover eco-friendly products that match your values and preferences</em></p>

---

### 🚀 Overview

**EcoRec** is a Streamlit-based app that helps you discover and explore eco-friendly products. It uses both collaborative filtering and content-based filtering to recommend products similar to your interests.

---

### ✨ Features

- Search and filter eco-friendly products by name, category, or price  
- Personalized recommendations based on your selection  
- Always shows relevant recommendations (by similarity or top-rated)  
- Data cleaning for accurate results  
- Modern, interactive UI  

---

### 🛠️ Tech Stack

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue?logo=python)
![pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-Data%20Handling-purple?logo=pandas)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-UI-red?logo=streamlit)
![scikit-learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-ML-blue?logo=scikit-learn)

---

### ⚙️ Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/eco-friendly-recommender.git
   cd EcoRec
   ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   # or with conda:
   # conda install -c conda-forge streamlit pandas scikit-learn
   ```
3. **Run the app:**
   ```bash
   streamlit run app.py
   ```
   
---

### 🧭 Usage

- Use the sidebar to navigate Home, About, and Contact pages.
- On Home, search for products, filter, and get recommendations.
- Recommendations are always shown: first by collaborative filtering, then by content similarity, then by top-rated.

---

### 📋 Requirements

- Python 3.8–3.11
- streamlit
- pandas
- scikit-learn
